Coronaviruses are a large family of viruses that usually cause mild to moderate upper-respiratory tract illnesses, like the common cold. 
There are hundreds of coronaviruses, most of which circulate among such animals as pigs, camels, bats and cats. Sometimes those viruses jump to humans—called a spillover event—and can cause disease. Four of the seven known coronaviruses that sicken people cause only mild to moderate disease.  The third novel coronavirus to emerge in this century is called SARS-CoV-2. It causes coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), which emerged from China in December 2019 and was declared a global pandemic by the World Health Organization on March 11, 2020.
 It is a widely accepted view that COVID 19 is either transmitted via surface contamination or via close contact of an un-infected person with an infected person. Surface contamination usually happens when infected water droplets from exhalation/sneeze/cough of COVID sick person settle on nearby surfaces. 
That gives the virus a passage to the mucous membranes in your throat. The virus moves down your respiratory tract. That’s the airway that includes your mouth, nose, throat, and lungs. Your lower airways have more ACE2 receptors than the rest of your respiratory tract. So COVID-19 is more likely to go deeper than viruses like the common cold.
Your lungs might become inflamed, making it tough for you to breathe. This can lead to pneumonia, an infection of the tiny air sacs (called alveoli) inside your lungs where your blood exchanges oxygen and carbon dioxide.
Signs and symptoms of COVID-19 may appear two to 14 days after exposure. This time after exposure and before having symptoms is called the incubation period. Common signs and symptoms can include: Fever, Cough, Loss of taste or smell, Tiredness, Shortness of breath or difficulty breathing, Muscle aches , Chills , Sore throat, Runny nose, Headache, Chest pain, Pink eye (conjunctivitis), Nausea, Vomiting, Diarrhea and Rash
Children have similar symptoms to adults and generally have mild illness.
The severity of COVID-19 symptoms can range from very mild to severe. Some people may have only a few symptoms, and some people may have no symptoms at all. Some people may experience worsened symptoms, such as worsened shortness of breath and pneumonia, about a week after symptoms start.
People who are older have a higher risk of serious illness from COVID-19, and the risk increases with age. People who have existing medical conditions also may have a higher risk of serious illness. Certain medical conditions that may increase the risk of serious illness from COVID-19 include:, Serious heart diseases, such as heart failure, coronary artery disease or cardiomyopathy, Cancer, Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), Type 1 or type 2 diabetes, Overweight, obesity or severe obesity, High blood pressure, Smoking, Chronic kidney disease, Sickle cell disease or thalassemia, Weakened immune system from solid organ transplants, Pregnancy, Asthma, Chronic lung diseases such as cystic fibrosis or pulmonary fibrosis, Liver disease, Dementia, Down syndrome, Weakened immune system from bone marrow transplant, HIV or some medications, Brain and nervous system conditions and Substance use disorders
COVID-19 vaccines help our bodies develop immunity to the virus that causes COVID-19 without us having to get the illness.
Below is a description of how each type of vaccine prompts our bodies to recognize and protect us from the virus that causes COVID-19. None of these vaccines can give you COVID-19.
mRNA vaccines contain material from the virus that causes COVID-19 that gives our cells instructions for how to make a harmless protein that is unique to the virus. After our cells make copies of the protein, they destroy the genetic material from the vaccine. Our bodies recognize that the protein should not be there and build T-lymphocytes and B-lymphocytes that will remember how to fight the virus that causes COVID-19 if we are infected in the future.
Protein subunit vaccines include harmless pieces (proteins) of the virus that causes COVID-19 instead of the entire germ. Once vaccinated, our bodies recognize that the protein should not be there and build T-lymphocytes and antibodies that will remember how to fight the virus that causes COVID-19 if we are infected in the future.
Vector vaccines contain a modified version of a different virus than the one that causes COVID-19. Inside the shell of the modified virus, there is material from the virus that causes COVID-19. This is called a “viral vector.” Once the viral vector is inside our cells, the genetic material gives cells instructions to make a protein that is unique to the virus that causes COVID-19. Using these instructions, our cells make copies of the protein. This prompts our bodies to build T-lymphocytes and B-lymphocytes that will remember how to fight that virus if we are infected in the future.

The practice of social distancing means staying home and away from others as much as possible to help prevent spread of COVID-19. The practice of social distancing encourages the use of things such as online video and phone communication instead of in-person contact.
As communities reopen and people are more often in public, the term “physical distancing” (instead of social distancing) is being used to reinforce the need to stay at least 6 feet from others, as well as wearing face masks.  Historically, social distancing was also used interchangeably to indicate physical distancing which is defined below.  However, social distancing is a strategy distinct from the physical distancing behavior.
Physical distancing is the practice of staying at least 6 feet away from others to avoid catching a disease such as COVID-19.
As noted above, “social distancing” is a term that was used earlier in the pandemic as many people stayed home to help prevent spread of the virus. Now as communities are reopening and people are in public more often, physical distancing is used to stress the importance of maintaining physical space when in public areas.
The following actions help prevent the spread of COVID-19, as well as other coronaviruses and influenza. Wear a face mask, as advised by the CDC, Maintain at least six feet of distance between yourself and others, Avoid large gatherings, Avoid close contact with people who are sick, Minimize touching your eyes, nose, and mouth, Stay home when you are sick, Cover your cough or sneeze with a tissue, then throw the tissue in the trash, Clean frequently touched objects and surfaces regularly, Wash your hands often with soap and water and get vaccinated as soon as you are eligible.
Reducing disease spread requires two things: limiting contacts of infected individuals via physical distancing and other measures and reducing the transmission probability per contact. The preponderance of evidence indicates that mask wearing reduces transmissibility per contact by reducing transmission of infected respiratory particles in both laboratory and clinical contexts. Public mask wearing is most effective at reducing spread of the virus when compliance is high. Given the current shortages of medical masks, we recommend the adoption of public cloth mask wearing, as an effective form of source control, in conjunction with existing hygiene, distancing, and contact tracing strategies. Because many respiratory particles become smaller due to evaporation, we recommend increasing focus on a previously overlooked aspect of mask usage: mask wearing by infectious people (“source control”) with benefits at the population level, rather than only mask wearing by susceptible people, such as health care workers, with focus on individual outcomes. We recommend that public officials and governments strongly encourage the use of widespread face masks in public, including the use of appropriate regulation.
COVID-19 presents varied clinical features, ranging from asymptomatic to ARDS. The most common symptoms at onset of COVID-19 include fever, cough, and shortness of breath. Yet about 80% of infections are mild (no pneumonia manifestations) or asymptomatic, though still contagious.  If the virus is not causing serious symptoms, people are less likely to recognise it, take protective measures, or seek medical help, thus affecting the public health efforts to contain the disease. As the virus continues to spread, more mild cases will arise and healthcare professionals need to recognise these to minimise the population, health systems, and economic risks and accurately portray total numbers of COVID-19 infections. Differentiating mild and moderate from severe disease may also help clinicians in more accurately triaging cases.
Pregnant women are at increased risk for severe illness from coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) compared with nonpregnant women Pregnancy, labor, and delivery also increase a woman’s risk for medical complications Further, chronic conditions, severe maternal morbidity, and COVID-19 have disproportionately affected racial and ethnic minority groups Three US-based studies have investigated adverse outcomes among women with and without COVID-19 at delivery Among pregnant women who delivered at a hospital system in Dallas, Texas, those with COVID-19 were no more likely to have a preterm birth, severe pre-eclampsia, or a cesarean delivery for fetal complications compared with pregnant women without COVID-19 . In New York City, pregnant women with COVID-19 were more likely to have postpartum fever, hypoxia, and to have a hospital readmission (12.9%) following delivery than pregnant women without COVID-19 (4.5%) Both studies were unable to evaluate if a COVID-19 diagnosis was independently associated with the adverse outcomes or adjust for underlying medical conditions. In a study of geographically diverse hospitals, rates of preterm birth, pre-eclampsia, thrombotic events, and death were higher among women with COVID-19 than those without COVID-19 at delivery These previous studies were limited in sample size or did not investigate differences by race/ethnicity 
Thus, to extend the evidence, we examined the association between documented COVID-19 diagnosis at delivery and risk of adverse outcomes, adjusting for underlying medical conditions and demographic characteristics overall and stratified by race/ethnicity. To better understand the impact of COVID-19, we also describe discharge status by COVID-19 diagnosis and select outcomes.
The recent Covid-19 pandemic has had significant psychological and social effects on the population. Research has highlighted the impact on psychological well-being of the most exposed groups, including children, college students, and health workers, who are more likely to develop post-traumatic stress disorder, anxiety, depression, and other symptoms of distress. The social distance and the security measures have affected the relationship among people and their perception of empathy toward others. From this perspective, telepsychology and technological devices assume important roles to decrease the negative effects of the pandemic. These tools present benefits that could improve psychological treatment of patients online, such as the possibility to meet from home or from the workplace, saving money and time and maintaining the relationship between therapists and patients. The aim of this paper is to show empirical data from recent studies on the effect of the pandemic and reflect on possible interventions based on technological tools.

The Covid-19 pandemic led to a prolonged exposure to stress. As a consequence, researchers showed an increased interest in measuring social and community uneasiness in order to psychologically support the population. This increased attention might help in managing the current situation and other possible epidemics and pandemics. The security measures adopted in managing the pandemic had different consequences on individuals, according to the social role invested. Some segments of the population seem to be more exposed to the risk of anxious, depressive, and post-traumatic symptoms because they are more sensitive to stress.
